---
layout:                 layouts/chapter.njk
chapter:                1
eleventyComputed:
    title:                  "{{ site.chapters.1 }}"
---

The first advantage is exposure — the positive kind, not the sort that could land you in a hospital bed. People begin to recognize your name and your work. Some will appreciate it enough to share it with friends, colleagues, and followers. One day, someone might approach you with a project, a job offer, or something similar. Indeed, while exposure alone doesn't pay the bills, it's a crucial element in your success formula.

Having a strong reputation in the industry naturally opens up more opportunities for connections. Building relationships with the right people—and being recognized by them—can significantly enhance both the quantity and quality of the opportunities available to you. You will be creating your own luck.

Ultimately, this will enhance your authority in your chosen field, and the trust others place in you. This will lead to a higher market value, giving you better leverage to secure your dream job, obtain a raise or promotion, or attract more and higher-quality clients.

"But I have nothing interesting to say or show," you might say. I understand that. This imposter syndrome affects every creator, and I feel it at times as well. However, there is one solution to this: start learning in public.

I first came across the term "learning in public" in [an article by Shawn @swyx Wang](https://www.swyx.io/learn-in-public/). However, this idea isn't particularly new. I've heard a similar concept from Gary Vaynerchuk: ["Document, don't create"](https://www.garyvaynerchuk.com/creating-content-that-builds-your-personal-brand/). Another popular term for this process is "Today I Learned [TIL]" - you can find numerous examples with a simple search using that phrase or the `#TIL` hashtag.
