---
layout:                 layouts/chapter.njk
chapter:                2
eleventyComputed:
    title:                  "{{ site.chapters.2 }}"
---

You need a solid foundation if you want to create something that will endure for a long time. Many people are excited about achieving success on social media and discuss how different platforms can attract more followers than others. On certain platforms, you can quickly amass tens of thousands of followers (TikTok is the first example that comes to mind). The appeal is strong and very tempting.

The truth though is that you don't own the relationship with your followers on social media. You are at the mercy of the algorithm and the rules of each platform. It can be so easy to lose your content and all your followers: someone hacked your account, abuse of tools (such as copyright strikes on YouTube), or some nebulous "breaking of the guidelines, rules, or terms and conditions". In most cases, you have few tools that allow you to regain access. Or you might know someone who can intervene on your behalf (see the part in the intro about making connections). Even so, your presence on that platform might never recover again.

That's why you should claim your own little corner of the Internet. "Don't build your home on rented land" is a phrase you'll hear often. You need a secure space where you establish the rules, own everything you put there, and where people can find you if needed. You need a personal website.

Fortunately, it has never been easier to create your website. All you need is a domain name and a reliable hosting provider. Numerous tools, frameworks, and applications can help you get started quickly. From dependable WordPress to various Static Site Generators, you can code a custom solution or create a simple, traditional static HTML page. I won’t delve further into that rabbit hole—one could write a book on that subject alone.

The next step is to create a personalized email address. Again, you might wonder, why bother? Most likely, you already have an email address you've used for years (or even decades) from providers like Hotmail, Gmail, Yahoo, or AOL. However, it's still "rented land". You are using that account at the mercy of the company supplying that service. You need something you can own, even if you only use it as a backup recovery address.

The final step is to establish a method for creating an email list. This is the only reliable way to connect directly with your contacts, fans, and followers. If everything else fails and you lose your presence on all social media platforms, you can still reach out to the people on your list via email. Many companies provide this service and allow you to export your list. I am using [Kit](https://convertkit.com/) (formerly known as Convert Kit), but there are plenty of alternatives: [Mailchimp](https://mailchimp.com/), [Campaign Monitor](https://www.campaignmonitor.com/), [HubSpot](https://www.hubspot.com/), and many more.

All of this provides a strong foundation for our online presence. A personal website serves as a hub for your content, bringing together your portfolio, blog, and other projects in one location, while a custom email and mailing list ensure direct communication with your audience. Together, these essential steps enhance and amplify the effect of your content creation. It's time to start producing some content.
